.TH "CRAM" "1" "2021/03/18" "Cram 0\&.0\&.1" "Cram Manual"
.SH "NAME"
cram \- a toolkit for automating Anki flashcard creation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fIcram\fR [\-\-version] [\-\-help] [<args>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Cram is a collection of shell scripts for generating and manipulating CSVs \
which can then be imported as notes into Anki.
.sp
These shell scripts (or "Cram commands") can be invoked \
by passing in their name as the first argument. For instance,
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
$ cram extract:zh <\fIfile\fR>
.fi
.RE
.sp
executes the ``extract:zh'' command.
.sp
These commands can then be composed into a UNIX pipeline \
to produce rich, complex study notes in CSV format:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
$ cram extract:zh input.txt \\  # print only Chinese characters from input (one per line, no duplicates)
  | cram append:zhuyin \\       # add a field for each character’s 注音 pronunciation
  | cram append:cangjie \\      # add a field for each character’s cangjie code
  | cram append:zh-compounds \\ # add a field for compound words containing each character
  >> output.csv
.fi
.RE
.sp
Then, import the resulting CSV into Anki (or the SRS system of your choice).
.sp
See the \fBCONFIGURATION\fR section below \
to learn how to create a one-line shortcut \
for complex pipelines like the one above.
.SH "DESIGN"
Cram is built according to the UNIX philosophy:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
Write programs that do one thing and do it well.
.sp
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
Write programs to work together.
.sp
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a universal interface.
.RE
.sp
Like git, cram is just a thin wrapper around collection of scripts \
which each perform one specific task. \
These tasks all operate on text streams, \
incrementally transforming them to produce an importable CSV.
.SH "COMMANDS"
Use ``cram --help'' to see a list of available commands.
.sp
Use ``cram <\fIcommand\fR> --help'' to learn more about a command.
.SS Built-in "types"
Most cram commands are organized into different namespaces \
based on what they do or how they work:
.TP
.B extract
For extracting study prompts (e.g., vocabulary words) from raw input. Can accept various types of input; outputs a one-field CSV text stream.
.TP
.B append
For adding fields to an existing CSV, usu. based on the value in the first field. Accepts and outputs CSV text streams only.
.TP
.B config
For manipulating Cram's config file.
.SS Creating your own commands
Cram can be extended with your own custom scripts. \
They may be written in any language and work however you like \
(remember, cram is just a thin wrapper for invoking scripts \
and composing them into a pipeline), \
but if you wish to combine them with existing commands,
they must consume/manipulate/produce CSV text streams.
.sp
Simply place your script under ``~/.local/lib/cram'', \
using directories to match your desired namespaces. \
For instance, to create a new ``extract:he'' command \
for extracting Hebrew text from a document, \
place your script here:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
📁 ~/.local/lib
└── 📁 cram
    └── 📁 extract
        └── 🗎 he
.fi
.RE
.sp
All CLI arguments and options will be passed directly to your script.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Cram reads a configuration file at $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/cram.yml \
(or ~/.config/cram.yml if $XDG_CONFIG_HOME is not set).
Use this file to store "profiles" of your most commonly-used pipelines.
.sp
For instance, the following configuration file defines a ``zh-literacy'' profile \
for the pipeline shown in the \fBDESCRIPTION\fR section:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
---
profiles:
  zh-literacy:
    extract:zh:
    append:zhuyin:
    append:cangjie:
    append:zh-compounds:
    output:
      path: ~/notes/chinese-characters.csv
      append: true
.fi
.RE
.sp
Execute this profile with ``cram use zh-literacy <\fIinput\fR>''.
.sp
Command-line options may be encoded as key-value pairs; e.g.,
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
append:cangjie:
  strict: false
  format: alphabet
.fi
.RE
.sp
encodes
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
$ cram append:cangjie --no-strict --format=alphabet
.fi
.RE
.SH "LICENSE"
Copyright (c) 2021 Ryan Lue, MIT License.
